- [Instructor] Spring is by far the single most popular
and arguably the most powerful framework
for the JVM available today.
We will begin this course with an introduction
to the framework itself.
Now, let's start our journey with Spring
by talking about the purpose,
and some of the benefits of the framework itself.
The Spring framework is built and designed
such that it provides comprehensive support
for developing applications for the JVM,
including abstractions for some of the most powerful
and common enterprise systems integrations,
specifically around common infrastructure.
Spring essentially is designed to provide
the plumbing for using these enterprise offerings
and common components used in both internet
and enterprise application development.
This plumbing allows you to easily consume
these offerings while focusing on your business logic,
instead of the copy paste scaffolding code
to use these integrations that many developers rely on.
Spring is designed using solid Object Oriented
Programming practices and its style promotes you
to do the same thing when consuming the framework.
Things like coding to an interface,
instead of an implementation are paramount in Spring.
Now, back to the plumbing idea,
Spring promotes Don't Repeat Yourself or DRY principles
by leveraging the powerful abstractions of the framework
instead of rebuilding the scaffolding over and over again,
you reduce your risk of copy paste errors,
and instead focus on the actual needs of your application.
Now, before I get too deep into the heart of Spring,
I want to share some definitions
and how they are utilized when talking about Spring.
If you are a seasoned Java developer,
please pay attention because in the Spring world
these terms have somewhat different meanings.
Although, I believe that they're more correct
to the original meanings.
The first is POJO or Plain old Java Object.
In Spring, this is any class file
that contains both attributes and methods.
And those methods are not just getters and setters.
This is a common deviation for many Java developers
who often concern the concept of POJO with Java Beans.
In the Spring world we take
the more correct definition of a POJO.
Now, this brings us to Java Beans.
These two are POJOs in practice,
but they're only methods are accessor methods,
often called getters and setters.
This definition is heavily used
when using EJBs, for instance.
Spring Beans, however, are POJOs that are configured
and managed by the application context.
Now, we will spend a significant amount
of time talking about the application context.
But for, right now, just consider
this anything that Spring manages
during the life cycle of your application.
DTOs, or Data Transfer Objects are Java Beans
with the specific purpose of moving state
between logical layers of your application.
There are times when you don't want to expose
the details of your working classes
and instead translate to a DTO,
which often is written as an immutable object
before setting the state data out of the logical layer.
Now, Inversion of Control is a central pattern
to the Spring framework and, in fact,
much of Spring is built around the central design pattern.
It can be said that if you fully understand
how Spring utilizes IoC, you understand Spring fully.
Inversion of Control provides a mechanism
for dependency injection, however,
it's more than just dependency injection
because with Spring's use of Inversion of Control,
the framework itself controls all operations
of the lifecycle of those dependencies,
not just the injection.
The Application Context wraps the Bean Factory,
which is the Inversion of Control container itself.
The Bean Factory serves the Beans
during runtime of your application.
Now we, as users and developers, never really interact
with the IoC container itself.
Instead we interact with its wrapper
or the application context.
There are several implementations
of the application context itself,
and we're going to be talking a bit
about that in this course, but I have a course
in the LinkedIn Learning Library called
"Spring: Framework in Depth," where we really go
into the details of the application context
in the IoC container and I highly recommend it
if you really want to dig into the framework.
Now, one of the most powerful aspects of Spring Boot
is that it provides auto-configuration
of the application context so that you,
as the developer, can leverage simple properties
and conventions to configure the Beans loaded
into the Bean Factory and used by the IoC container.
Now, I know this was a lot for an introductory chapter,
but don't worry we're going to dig
into these topics throughout the course.
This is just to give you a solid foundation of Spring
and we had to start with some high-level concepts.